at this point, we've learned how to make functions and now it's time to start using them 
in our python programs. 

once you start writing them you'll want to reuse your functions between your different 
programs. the easiest way to do that is through modules.

a module in python is just a file with python definitions and statements, so we've actually
been writing them all along!

to create a new module, make a python file like normal. the module name is the same as
the file name, excluding the .py extension. 

i'll paste some functions i've already written in here. you can also store variables 
in modules to use them in other programs. 

now, these functions are just helpers that will allow me to complete my main program.

a good way to think of it is to store your main code and helper code separately. 
your main code solves your bigger, main problem or task, and the helper functions 
complete the smaller tasks that make up the big one. 

you should also group similar functions together in a module, so you might have one module 
for math functions, one for lists, and one for strings.

you'll learn more about how to properly structure your code as you keep moving forward, 
but try to keep these tips in mind when creating new programs. 

okay, so let's go to our main python file. to import the module, type import and then the name.
easy. 

now to call your functions from that module, type the module name dot the command name or variable name.
like this.

it's just like using the random module and the randint command stored there. 

if you only want to import specific functions or variables, type, from module import and then 
the names of the specific things you want to import, separated with commas. 

this way it's as if we defined the functions in our current file, and we can call the commands
without stating the module. 

if you want to import all of the definitions like this, say from module import all, 
with an asterisk 

if you don't like the name of a module, you can rename it when importing. 
type import module as and then the local name you want to call it.

you can also import individual definitions like this. 

now you can separate your python programs into different files, and that will 
make things a lot easier to reuse your code too. 

that's all for now.

code dog out.