today we're going to learn how to write commands in python. 

commands are the most basic aspects of programs.

if you remember, a program is just a list of instructions, and a command is just a specific instruction.

start out by typing the command name. today we're using 'print'

a set of parenthesis after the name of the command is what tells the
program to run that command

inside of the parenthesis you can give data to the command. 
in this case I'll type some words surrounded by quotation marks.

that's it! a working program. I'll test it out by saving the file
and running it. If you have code runner installed, just right click
and choose run. 

you can see it ran down here in the terminal. 
it printed exactly what i told it to. cool.

let's go back to the program again. since we know that a program is just a **set** of instructions,
we can type as many "prints" as we want.
more prints will do what you'd probably expect

/------------

different commands take different types of data. this is called a string, which is made up 
of letters and characters

"print" will also take numbers , expressions, and other values.
here you can see that if i put a 4 without quotations, it'll run just fine

if i put in a math expression, like 5 + 7, it'll actually calculate that and then print it.
we'll learn about operations in a different video. 

!!

commands can also take sets of data

if i put a comma in between two values, it'll print them with a space

the print command can take as many arguments as you want, and they can be different types of data, like this.

we'll learn about different data types in the next video, and operations after that.

-----------

you'll find out that programming languages can be very picky sometimes,
and this will cause your programs to have errors. 

if you put space between the name of the command and the parenthesis, it doesn't really care.
however, if you put spaces before and then try to run, it'll say indentation error. 

if i get rid of the quotation marks, the program gets confused

it also cares about the way you write the command name. it's case-sensitive, so if i type
"print" with a capital "P", the program will error, because it couldn't find a command with that name



awesome. so know we know how to write commands and give them different kinds of data.

that's all for this lesson, make sure to play around with your own programs and learn a little on your own

until the next video, code dog out.