here's another quick video on how to use the python interpreter.

so where do we start?

well, for most programs we write, we just right click
and choose run, thanks to the code runner extension. 
but what does that actually do? if you take a closer
look at what's going on in the terminal, what's really
happening is code runner takes your code file and
puts the word 'python' before it. 

so, in order to run a python program, you just type 
'python' and then the name of the file. code runner
is really just a shortcut. 

if you didn't know, python is a language that is interpreted, which
means your code is read and executed in steps. 

this works through an interpreter. what's cool is that 
we can start the interpreter in interactive mode, and
run programs one instruction at a time!

***
to start the interpreter, just type 'python' into the 
terminal. and if you didn't know, the terminal in VS
code is actually just an integrated form of the 
MacOs terminal or windows command prompt.

when you type in python and hit enter, you'll see some
information about it. here it says python 2.7, which
is actually not what we want. Macs come with python
installed, but its an older version. if you installed
python 3, you'll have to type in 'python3'. 

on windows computers, this shouldn't be a problem.
just make sure that when you run python, it says version
3.7 or higher. 

okay now we're in the interpreter, and it's waiting for
us to give it an instruction. the three greater than signs
make up a prompt. 

let's try typing a print. 
since it's running commands one at a time, it prints 'hi'
right after i hit enter.

print('hi')

in fact, when you're in interactive mode, you don't even need
to type print! the interpreter will just give you whatever
the output is.

'hi'

you can run pretty much any python instruction here. 
i can set a variable like this, and then recall it in the
next prompt. it'll retain it because the program hasn't come
to a stop yet, remember?

age = 20

age

the interpreter can be nice if you want to experiment 
with a certain command, because you don't have to write
an entirely new file. 

age = age + 20

age

okay, we'll use the interpreter in the next video as we
learn about operations. 

to close out of the interpreter you can use the quit command.

there are also shortcuts. on Mac control + D should 
bring it to a stop, and on windows CTRL + z then enter
should work. 

okay! that's all for this video. 
code dog out